Add Remote SCAP resources disconnected (#2216)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_applying-remote-scap-resources-in-disconnected-environment.adoc

3:
  :profile: xccdf_org.ssgproject.content_profile_stig
  :content_path: */var/lib/openscap/content/_96c2a9d5278d5da905221bbb2dc61d0ace7ee3d97f021fccac994d26296d986d.xml_*
----
. On the host, examine the data stream to find out which missing resource you must download:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# oscap info /var/lib/openscap/content/_96c2a9d5278d5da905221bbb2dc61d0ace7ee3d97f021fccac994d26296d986d.xml_ 2>&1 | grep 'WARNING: Skipping'
*WARNING: Skipping '_https://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_' file which is referenced from datastream*
----
. On an online machine, download the missing resource:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# wget -O _security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_ _https://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_
----
+
To name the downloaded file correctly, remove the protocol and hostname from the URL, and replace slashes `/` with dashes `-`.
. Upload the file to your host and place it to the home directory of `root`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> # mv _security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_ /root

Author: This will work for any RHEL version, because oscap either runs in /root as pwd, or has it hardcoded for lookup of local files. See https://github.com/theforeman/foreman_scap_client/blob/master/lib/foreman_scap_client/client.rb#L43

Reviewer: Correct, the only issue would be in case you have old Satellite (foreman_scap_client 0.5.0 or older) and new RHEL 8.6+.

Author: What kind of issue?

[id="applying-remote-scap-resources-in-disconnected-environment_{context}"]

> = Applying Remote SCAP Resources in Disconnected Environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Applying Remote SCAP Resources in the Disconnected Environment
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# grep -A 2 '^[[:digit:]]\+:' /etc/foreman_scap_client/config.yaml 
3:
  :profile: xccdf_org.ssgproject.content_profile_stig
  :content_path: */var/lib/openscap/content/_96c2a9d5278d5da905221bbb2dc61d0ace7ee3d97f021fccac994d26296d986d.xml_*
----
. On the host, examine the data stream to find out which missing resource you must download:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# oscap info /var/lib/openscap/content/_96c2a9d5278d5da905221bbb2dc61d0ace7ee3d97f021fccac994d26296d986d.xml_ 2>&1 | grep 'WARNING: Skipping'
*WARNING: Skipping '_https://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_' file which is referenced from datastream*
----
. On an online machine, download the missing resource:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# wget -O _security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_ _https://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_
----
+
To name the downloaded file correctly, remove the protocol and hostname from the URL, and replace slashes `/` with dashes `-`.

> . Upload the file to your host and place it to the home directory of `root`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Upload the file to your host and place it in the home directory of `root`:
```

Note the URL on which your repository is published, such as `http://_{foreman-example-com}_/pulp/content/_My_Organization_Label_/Library/custom/_My_Product_Label_/_My_Repo_Label_/`.
. Schedule a remote job to upload the file to the home directory of `root` on your host.
For example, use the `Run Command - Script Default` job template and enter the following command:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# curl -o /root/_security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL7.xml.bz2_ http://_{foreman-example-com}_/pulp/content/_My_Organization_Label_/Library/custom/_My_Product_Label_/_My_Repo_Label_/_security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL7.xml.bz2_
----
+
For more information about running remote jobs, see {ManagingHostsDocURL}executing-a-remote-job_managing-hosts[Executing a Remote Job] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.
. xref:running-a-security-compliance-scan-on-demand_{context}[Run a security compliance scan].

.Verification
* In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Hosts* > *Reports* and compare the numbers of result statuses between the last two reports.
The numbers of the *Passed*/*Failed* rules should have increased.
The number of the *Other* rules should have decreased.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> [id="applying-remote-scap-resources-in-disconnected-environment_{context}"]

Reviewer 3: Please ensure title matches with anchor + file name: missing "a".

. On your {ProjectServer}, examine the data stream you use in your compliance policy to find out which missing resource you must download:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# oscap info _/usr/share/xml/scap/ssg/content/ssg-rhel8-ds.xml_ | grep "WARNING"
WARNING: Datastream component 'scap_org.open-scap_cref_security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2'
points out to the remote 'https://access.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2'.
Use '--fetch-remote-resources' option to download it.
WARNING: Skipping 'https://access.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2' file
which is referenced from datastream
----
. Examine what name of the local file is expected by the data stream:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# oscap info _/usr/share/xml/scap/ssg/content/ssg-rhel8-ds.xml_
...
		Referenced check files:
			ssg-rhel8-oval.xml
				system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
			ssg-rhel8-ocil.xml
				system: http://scap.nist.gov/schema/ocil/2
			*security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2*
				system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
...
----

> . On an online machine, download the missing resource:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. On an connected machine, download the missing resource:
```

unsure about both "online" and "connected". :shrug:

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# curl -o _security-data-oval-com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_ _https://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-RHEL8.xml.bz2_
----
+

> Mind the name of the downloaded file.
> It must be named as referenced from the data stream.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensure to name the downloaded file as referenced by the data stream.
```

> . Add the file as new {customfiletype} content into your disconnected {Project}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Add the file as new {customfiletype} content into your disconnected {ProjectServer}.
```
